---
id: 3829s
name: CRUD-suit
file_version: 1.0.2
app_version: 0.9.3-5
---

# CRUD-suit

This package gives you a simple CRUD service for any initial development, or prototyping for web applications.

Package Features:

1.  saving to local storage.
    
2.  Synchronous, or asynchronous operation.
    
3.  Total changes Array - the package will record any action done by the service, and will give access to that Array of changes. Each action will be timestamped.
    
4.  timestamp and updatedStamp.
    

## How to use

```
npm install crud-suit
```




```
import CRUD from './node_modules/crud-suit/index.js'

const crudService = new CRUD([data | Array], [save to LocalStorage | boolean], [name of key in LocalStorage | string], [asynchronous CRUD | boolean])
```




## Methods

1.  query - will return the data Array When calling this function, a timestamp key will be generated on each object in the Array.
    
    ```
    crudService.query()
    ```
    
    

2.  getById - will take un \\\_id and will return the object matching that \\\_id
    
    ```markdown
    crudService.getById(entityId
    ```
    
    

3.  remove - will take \\\_id end splice it from the data Array. will not return any data.
    
    ```markdown
    crudService.remove(entityId)
    ```
    
    

4.  getEmptyItem - will return un empty item based on the first object in your data Array
    
    ```markdown
    crudService.getEmptyItem()
    ```
    
    

5.  add - will take a new data object, add it to the data Array with un \_id will return the new object that was created with the \_id. When calling this function, a timestamp key will be generated on the added object.
    
    ```markdown
    crudService.add(entity)
    ```
    
    

6.  update - will take un object find it inside the data Array and replace it with the new object. will not return any data. When calling this function, an updatedStamp key will be created on each object in the Array.
    
    ```markdown
    crudService.update(entity)
    ```
    
    

7.  undoAction - will able you to undo last actions based on snapShot of your data before any crud action. It will return the last snapShot of you'r data before the changes. this method will not save the snapShot Array to localStorage.
    
    ```markdown
    crudService.undoAction()
    ```
    
    

8.  getActivities - will keep record of all actions done by the service and timestamp it. It will return an activities Array with objects describing the action.
    
    ```markdown
    crudService.getActivities()
    ```
    

# First parameter - data | Array

## How to insert your data.

The CRUD class instance would take a data Array, containing object items as it's first parameter. In order to ensure all methods are working properly, do not insert your data with id key. \_id key for every object will be generated by the CRUD instance.

# Second & third parameter - localStorage | Boolean, key | String.

## Working with localStorage

LocalStorage will take a Key Value pair to store. In order to save yor data to local storage, you will need two parameters. The first parameter is a boolean in order to determine whether the information will be kept or not, to LocalStorage. The third parameter is a string to determine the key for the localStorage collection.

# Fourth parameter - asynchronous | Boolean

## Working synchronously and asynchronously

This parameter will take a boolean value to determine whether your CRUD instance will return a simple data format or a Promise based format.




<br/>

This file was generated by Swimm. [Click here to view it in the app](https://app.swimm.io/repos/Z2l0aHViJTNBJTNBQ1JVRC1wYWNrYWdlJTNBJTNBdGFsMDMxMQ==/docs/3829s).